# Up and Running with Utilities Demo

This guide will tell you how to use the `init.sh` script to set up both your local and Bluemix environment so that you can run the Utilities mobile app.

**All commands below must be run in a terminal prompt.**

## What it does
This script sets up the Bluemix services and local environments for the Utilities mobile app. For Bluemix it adds Cloudant, Weather Insights, and Mobile Foundation. Locally it adds the ios and android ionic platforms and mfpdev server entry. In addition it deploys the UserLogin adapter and adds searchable dummy data to Cloudant.

## Requirements
0. git. Download git and install it from [https://git-scm.com/](https://git-scm.com/).
1. npm. Download the node.js installer [here](https://nodejs.org/en/) to install it.
2. cf cli. Follow the direction [here](https://docs.cloudfoundry.org/cf-cli/install-go-cli.html) to install it.
3. mfpdev cli. Install it via `npm install -g mfpdev-cli`.
4. ionic cli. Install it via `npm install -g ionic`.
5. JAVA_HOME variable points to a 1.8 JDK
6. bower cli. Bower is used to install [`ngCordova`](http://ngcordova.com) which greatly simplifies building a Cordova app with Angular. Get [Bower](https://bower.io/) with `npm install -g bower`

## Usage
2. In a terminal, checkout this repo by running `git clone git@github.ibm.com:cord-americas/utilities-demo.git && cd utilities-demo`
2. Navigate to the project root folder and run `bash init.sh`.
3. Follow along with the prompt and instructions.
4. Add the credentials at the end to the `Configuration` tab of the `Utilities` adapter in the Mobile Foundation Console.

Once the script is done and after the Utilities adapter has been deployed as directed by the script, you can run the app by navigating to the `utilities-demo-app` folder and using the command `ionic emulate ios` or `ionic emulate android`.

## Notes
1. The script has 3 points where you must interact with it to continue, so pay attention to it.
2. If your mfpdev cli already has a server named `mf-utilities` in it, you have to either rename or delete it or the script will fail.
3. If you've used ionic before and already have an android and ios runtime, you will see the prompt say there was an error trying to load them. This is normal.
4. It is sometimes hard to differentiate between certain characters in Mobile Foundation password display. If the mfpdev portion of the script throws errors, an incorrect password may be the problem.
5. Not all of these Bluemix services are free. Keep that in mind before using this tool.
6. If you have problems building the app, it is always a good idea to remove and re-add the platforms. This is a known technique when dealing with hybrid apps. Simply run: `ionic platform rm ios && cordova clean && ionic platform add ios && ionic prepare`
