# Adapters Overview

Adapters contain the server-side code of applications that are deployed on and serviced by IBM MobileFirst™ Platform Foundation.

MobileFirst adapters are deployed to a runtime in the IBM MobileFirst Platform Server and are used to securely connect client applications to enterprise back-end systems and cloud services. Adapters deliver data and perform any necessary server-side logic on this data.

## Benefits

* **Universality**: Adapters support multiple integration technologies and back-end information systems.
* **Read-only and transactional capabilities**: Adapters support read-only and transactional access modes to back-end systems.
* **Rapid development and testing**: Use tools such as Apache Maven and MobileFirst Platform CLI. Adapters use simple XML syntax and are easily configured with the JavaScript API or Java™ API.
* **Security**: Adapters use an OAuth-based security framework that enables you to protect enterprise resources. There are built-in annotations that let you quickly define the scope for authorization permissions of the resources.
* **Transparency**: Data that is retrieved from back-end applications is exposed in a uniform manner, regardless of the adapter type. Application developers can access data uniformly, regardless of its source, format, and protocol.

## Adapters and third-party dependencies
Every adapter has its own isolated sandbox, in which all its classes are running without knowing about or interrupting the sandboxes of other adapters. It is possible to include third-party libraries that are required by the adapter code by defining them as Maven dependencies in the adapter project pom.xml file. For more information, see [Third-party Maven dependencies](https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/en/SSHS8R_8.0.0/com.ibm.worklight.getstart.doc/start/c_known_limitations.html?view=kc#knownlimitations__adapters_3rd).

**Note**: There are certain limitations in the use of third-party dependencies in adapters. For more information, see Adapters and third-party dependencies.

## Development Language

Adapters can be developed in either in JavaScript or in Java. The source code of the adapter in both cases has access to a rich server API, which enables it to perform operations on the server side, such as calling other adapters, getting the user identity, and more. For more information, see [the Mobile Foundation tutorial](https://mobilefirstplatform.ibmcloud.com/tutorials/en/foundation/8.0/adapters/creating-adapters/).